***ANSWER ALL OF THE QUESTIONS BELOW***

Why do we need data structure?
Answer: To store, organize and retrieve data

What are the various operations that can be performed on different data structures?
Answer: traversing, looping, and insertion

When would we use data structures in the real world?
Answer: To store, organize and retrieve data

What is an Array?
Answer: An array is a container object that holds a fixed number of values.

What is the difference between Array and ArrayList?
Answer: Array is a fixed length data structure whereas ArrayList is a variable length Collection class

What is a LinkedList?
Answer: Linked List can be defined as collection of objects called nodes that are randomly stored in the memory

How is an Array different from LinkedList?
Answer: An array is a collection of elements of a similar data type. Linked List is an ordered collection of elements of the same type in which each element is connected to the next using pointers

What is a Queue?
Answer: The Queue interface present in the java.util package and extends the Collection interface is used to hold the elements about to be processed in FIFO(First In First Out) order.

What is a Stack (referring to data structures)?
Answer: Stack is a linear data structure which follows a particular order in which the operations are performed.

What is FIFO and LIFO?
Answer: The Last-In, First-Out (LIFO) method assumes that the last unit to arrive in inventory or more recent is sold first. The First-In, First-Out (FIFO) method assumes that the oldest unit of inventory is the sold first.

Explain Big O Notation?
Answer: Big O notation is used in Computer Science to describe the performance or complexity of an algorithm. Thus, it gives the worst-case complexity of an algorithm.

What is the best case to search an element from an array?
Answer: The best case complexity is O(1) when element is first or last element in the array.

What is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Answer: The worst-case time complexity is O(log N) . This means that as the number of values in a dataset increases, the performance time of the algorithm (the number of comparisons) increases as a function of the base-2 logarithm of the number of values.

Describe what a tree data structure is?
Answer: A tree is a hierarchical data structure defined as a collection of nodes

Describe what a graph data structure is?
Answer: A graph is a non-linear kind of data structure made up of nodes or vertices and edges

What is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Answer: Hashtable does not allow null keys or values. HashMap allows one null key and any number of null values.

How do HashMaps work in Java? How do they store values, and when are they useful?
Answer: HashMaps work by storing data values that we call retrieve any given time, they are used because we can store key values in them and call the key later.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When does it occur?
Answer: A error that tells us the index we are trying to access is not available. It occurs we are trying to access any item of an array at an index which is not present in the array.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Answer: Using the System.arraycopy() method, the clone() method, or by creating an empty array and using loops to copy each element from the previous array.

What is DFS and BFS?
Answer: DFS(Depth First Search) uses Stack data structure and BFS(Breadth First Search) uses Queue data structure for finding the shortest path.

What is Recursion?
Answer: A method that calls itself is a recursive method.

What are linear and non-linear data Structures?
Answer: In non-linear data structure, data elements are hierarchically connected and are present at various levels. In linear data structure, data elements are sequentially connected and each element is traversable through a single run.

Outline different sorting algorithms and their time complexities:

Bubble Sort is the simplest sorting algorithm that works by repeatedly swapping the adjacent elements if they are in wrong order.
Heap sort is a comparison-based sorting technique based on Binary Heap data structure.